---
prev: /index
---
# Bonjour, こんにちは, مرحبا!

Welcome to `Le Tour De V`, and interactive tour that will teach you
everything you need to know to buld fast and small
[V](https://vlang.io) programs easily!


# What is V?

V is a statically typed compiled programming language designed for
building maintainable software.

It's similar to Go and its design has also been influenced by Oberon,
Rust, Swift, Kotlin, and Python.

V is a very simple language. Going through this documentation will
take you about an hour, and by the end of it you will have pretty much
learned the entire language.

The language promotes writing simple and clear code with minimal
abstraction.

Despite being simple, V gives the developer a lot of power. Anything
you can do in other languages, you can do in V.


# How to use this tutorial
You'll need to have basic familiarity with programming and programming
terminology.

As you progress through the tutorial, you'll be presented with mini
exercises designed to illustrate new features. Later chapters build on
the knowledge gained in earlier ones, so it's recommended that you go
from start to finish. If necessary, you can navigate via the dropdown
above.


Each tutorial chapter will have a 'Show me' button that you can click
if you get stuck following the instructions. Try not to rely on it too
much; you will learn faster by figuring out where to put each
suggested code block and manually typing it in to the editor.

<footer>

`Le Tour De V` was inspired by [Svelte](https://svelte.dev), and [Tour
of Go](https://tour.golang.org/)

</footer>
